Add newspost on TabPFN Galaxy tool (#2926)
galaxyproject/galaxy-hub: content/news/2025-02-12-tabpfn-in-galaxy/index.md

---
title: 'TabPFN: Foundation Model for Tabular Data in Galaxy'
date: '2025-02-12'
tease: 'Fast machine learning method for making predictions on any tabular data'
authors: 'Anup Kumar'
tags: [tools]
subsites: [all-eu,global,esg]
main_subsite: eu
---

### Introduction

> Machine learning for tabular data is a critical task in various domains, from healthcare to finance. Traditional approaches like decision trees, gradient boosting, and deep learning require extensive training and hyperparameter tuning. However, a groundbreaking approach called TabPFN (Tabular Prior-data Fitted Network) has revolutionized tabular classification by enabling zero-shot learning—predicting labels without additional training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Machine learning for tabular data is a critical task in various domains, from healthcare to finance. Traditional approaches like decision trees, gradient boosting, and deep learning require extensive training and hyperparameter tuning. However, a new approach called TabPFN (Tabular Prior-data Fitted Network) has the potential to revolutionise tabular classification by enabling zero-shot learning—predicting labels without additional training.
```
